visiting with the students, which I guess was
important to the students, being straight from
practice. So it would relate to them about what
they intended to do. Because historically, 90% of
our graduates here and throughout the nation have
gone into practice. And I think try as hard as they
might, that's not going to change a whole lot. I
hope it doesn't anyway. But I don't know. The
difference in that philosophy I'm sure has come
out. Do both of you think that it's important for
faculty in the college to have had a practical
experience in the field? Well, I'd say it's an
advantage. I don't know how important it is, but
perhaps so. Because the students are pretty quick
to detect if you're telling them a story,
stringing them along with the book version, or
whether you've been there. Do you find this to be
true? Well, yeah. I think so.
They respect you for having been there. Yeah. Do
you think they're better able to sit and wait on the
job? And I think the students are surprisingly
capable of doing that. They've always been there.
Are most of our faculty, have they had some
experience and practice?
Well, I've been away from it as long as it takes. I'd
say most of them, it's a minimal amount of
experience. Typically,
your engineers and certainly your historians
don't practice anyway, I guess. But academic
people don't really know the real world out there.
And I think that's kind of interesting The
practice that most of our clinic faculty has had
has been in an academic environment where they are
associating with specialists instead of seeing a
general practice. Most of our faculty are coming
from the intern residency program, from clinics.
It's still a controlled kind of a laboratory
environment. Well, you don't have to deal with the
economics of it. Yeah, right. And that's a big,
that's a key difference. Yeah. Probably not a plan
to go into practice. You have to shoot from the hip
more. You don't have all the laboratory
facilities and diagnostics, sophisticated
instruments. Yeah, diagnostics. That's a good
point. Yeah, I would think that would be something
that's very different in the environment. I know
my dad, he was a county agent type and all that. And
then in the implement business, he always talked
about the sterile environment of academics. They
just didn't know. I think that's important. I
don't think there's any question about our
faculty now is better qualified to teach than I
was. Technicians are good. But I think that it has
some problems that we need to be aware of educating
these kids. I don't know if this is a fair question,
but let me come back. Since both of you have been
through the same experience, what did you do with
your practice finally? Did you sell it? Did you
turn over a partner? Was there anything to sell? I
don't need money, but I just... My associate had
been with me for about nearly four years, I guess,
on a percentage of the... net income. But about
first of the year, first of 71, I'd made him a 50-50
partner. But I continued to own the real estate,
just leased him, leased the partnership, the real
estate. And I guess the wisdom of the attorney that
drew up the papers, he said, any time you get into a
legal arrangement like this, like a partnership,
that is the time to plan how to dispose of the
partnership. You have good feelings toward each
other, you're amicable, and you're rationally
discussing things, and you need to plan a way out of
a partnership when you go into the partnership.
And this served to be, I think, to the advantage of
both of us, eventually. But when I came up here then
and decided to come and went back and discussed it
with my partner, we arranged again with an
attorney that if I didn't return to the practice
within a period of three years, he was to buy the
other half of my practice. And we set out the terms
and the purchase price and all of that at the time.
Just to say I didn't return in three years. And at
the time it was a very attractive opportunity for
him. Oh, no doubt, no doubt. He's made a better
businessman out of a deal than I ever did when I was
in practice. It's been a very lucrative practice
for him. I don't know whether they've done it more
practice than they did when I was in practice, Give
me more dollars. Veterinary medicine has
improved the economics of it, for one thing.
It was good for both of us, as it turns out. What did
you do, Charlie? Well, I had a young man who came
when he graduated, came to work for me, but he
didn't put in the hour and time required. He went to
work in the regulatory. I remained by myself for 16
and a half years the rest of the time. I don't think
you can sell even good will. Sometimes you can
leave good image and move in. But your physical
plant and your actual inventory is about...
That's what you got. If a guy's very smart, you can
sell him a big deal and make him believe it because
you got a lot of money made. When I went into
practice, I had no money. I just bought a car and
that was it. And I would order two bottles of, for
instance, calcium gluconate from Jack Miller,
another veterinary supplier. They'd put it on the
Greyhound bus and get it in an hour and a half. And
when I used one, I ordered one more until I built up
the inventory. I rented a building that had a
14-foot ceiling, was 60 feet wide and about 440
feet long on the main track, Main Street. And
people weren't used to small animal parks. They
had two quacks in the area there, non-graduate,
non-licensed, you know, shot givers, and stayed
busy all the time, cleaning cows, pulling calves,
that sort of thing. And it was, I'd sit there three
days, wouldn't make a call, you know, just a matter
of trying to weather the storm without a level. A
guy would come in with his wife's dog, and he'd get
out and stand on the, we were next to the bank. He'd
stand on the street a while, look both ways, if he
didn't see any of his friends, he'd go out and get
the dog, put it in his coat, and bring it inside, you
know. And I had one cage, and when I was in Houston, I
had a desire to set up a practice, and I had rented an
office, and off hours and weekends, I would
operate, you know, kind of a diagnostic skin
treatment sort of thing there on Harvard, at the
corner of White Oak Drive and Harvard over in the
Heights. And I moved that cage and that table,
examination table, which had been with the
surgery table, I moved that with me. And in due
time, we picked up one, so we lost the rent of that
building and we moved to a corner of a service
station sort of thing. And most of the work was done
in a field. 90% of it was probably lower down in the
field.
Got enough money together, I bought a place that
bettered land board and then I sold that a little
ranch type deal and built a clinic. The name of it
was the Near the Nothing Ranch. It was a brand
registered in Hill County. Had her raise her
cattle along and built a clinic and that was quite
an improvement. You treat three while you're
treating one in the country. I guess the best thing
that happened was the advent of the four-wheel
drive vehicle, which I purchased an old army jeep
and fixed that thing up and then I wore that one out
in another one. and then got into the pickup, the
kept sort of thing. And when I left, there was, I
came down here, one of the seniors, graduating
seniors, bought the place, and bought a home. His
wife knew nothing about their medicines. He had no
help, but eventually he gave the thing up, and I got
it back. I sold it to him. It was an automobile, so I
had to reclaim it with all your feelings. Then I
leased the clinic facility and it turned into
something else.
So you basically dissolved the practice and sold
the facilities and so forth. Well, there's
another veterinarian who lived there in town. He
also is Dr. Maddox who heads the meat inspection
training school at the feds there in Fort Worth and
has for about 30 years. Rick started in doing some
practice. He built him a little surgery room,
whatever, in his backyard and did some small
animal practice and a little large animal
practice, but he was gone, you know, all day, so it
was a matter of night. That pretty soon got over.
But there were no veterinarians. There were two
veterinarians in Hillsboro. Dr. Ralph George
came there just before I came here. And there were
about five in Cleveland. So they sort of sorted the
area. We got to walk to Hatchie, Dr. Kelly, and Dr.
Wheaton. And I had a 10-mile equidistant to all the
small towns from Grandview, Taska, Albany, and
Lake Pearl, Cutler. Far down is Whitney and as far
up is Fort Worth. We got some equine practice out of
Fort Worth. And your business is basically calls.
Yes, they don't bring them into you. You go. Oh,
yeah, I forgot the clinic. They brought me in.
Okay, I can get out work. We did with record
outpatient for pregnancy diagnoses That sort of
thing that man mood a thousand cows 55 bulls in
there from Montana. He got tired the cold weather
and It was sort of a dormant type branch operation
has been there all the time They had a few sheep when
this guy came in and images began to change the
charlotte people began to move in the exotics we
then provided facility for that i availed myself
of the high school kiddos by putting putting a tv in
the reception room and let them play 42. no card no
whiskey no drinking no beer but let them watch tv
and play it out and i always had somebody for the
night work at the clinic yeah and uh The night
watchman checked the thing, and he'd drive in and
shine the lights out there. We had a small paddock
we kept the potential cavers in, which they looked
like they were going to calve at night. By 4
o'clock, we'd do a section and be good to go in about
a minute. It worked out real good. I had a daytime
receptionist, and I had a day man who went with me on
calls and worked in the clinic. Then I had a night
man, and then I had a Saturday and Sunday person. I
had four late people. And I was doing work. That's
when I decided. I had two children. They were
asleep when I got home. They were asleep when I left
in the mornings. So I said, we've got to do
something else, you know. And I decided, well,
here I've been 30 straight days and nights, no time
off, weekends and all. And about four other people
are keeping up with what I'm doing. So I decided to
look for something else. And I went to Houston and
talked with a classmate, Dr. Myatt. His partner
had left. He said, oh, we have a two days a week when
they're playing together, you have, well, every
other weekend, all that, you know. And I said,
well, who does emergency calls at night,
fractures and that sort of thing? He said, well,
Leland's been doing those. And I said, well,
uh-huh. Boyd's fixing to get that. If I want to do
that, I want to stay home and get all the money. I'm
not going to split. So that's what, and I looked for
something the other day. That, and I came here to
the university. But you had a single practice, I
mean, you were the sole... Single person
practice, general practice, we did everything.
That's not common now, is it? Or is it? Well,
there's too much knowledge and too much specialty
work, there's too much liability to try to do all
those things by yourself. Yeah. And I don't think,
those who do it are in East Texas areas like Melvin
Ketchum and somebody like that. Yeah. Small
communities. It can be done. You can learn, as
Elmer said a while ago, to give you an eyeball
diagnosis. You don't have to take a computerized
printout sheet with the norms and the actuals and
go down to the checklist and say, well, it must be
this or this. You can still make a successful
practice. When you're going over treatment, 70%
are going to get well anyway if you just handle it
right. And you have to be able to deal with the other
part of it, the necropsies. The thing that amazed
me when I came here was that I can remember as a
student we had one glass syringe and someone broke
it so they had to get on a bicycle and come to the
north gate and buy another one and go back and boil
it in the old sterilizer before we could continue.
When I came here I didn't find it a hell of a lot
different. They had one instrument cabinet, they
had one surgery pack, and you did surgery on the
horse, you had to clean it up and autoclave it
before you could do the next procedure. And when I
made any calls to the dairy for the university or
whatever, I still had my pickup with the cover deal
on the back and the instruments in it. And I'd just
load the students up and we'd go with my stuff,
check out stuff out of the pharmacy and go to it. And
then we got a little more money and I prevailed upon
Dr. Callahan that we need this and we need that. How
would you, again this is really random, what would
you say would be the high and low points of your
practice when you were practicing? Low point from
1955-56. We had a drought area up there and I had
clients who were buying and selling cattle and
horses and and this sort of thing, and those who
were operating on annual loans from the bank, they
went under. The lots where the cattle had been had
sunflowers six feet tall in them, no cattle. They
owed me and my workmate, I guess, $12,000 at one
time receivable. I had $156 in the bank at the time I
paid all these drug bills, and I should have known,
but I didn't. You were out of business, huh? And so,
you know, we weathered the storm. We paid our
bills. We tightened our belts. 57 it started to
rain things started to pick up this guy moved in
these animals i bought an electro ejaculator for
semen evaluation people you know had one or two
bulls and they said well you know you don't get
bread i'll sell them buy some more cows buy another
bull if they go ahead and when i got the the setup
with the scope and uh had a deal to go out the the
angus man had 55 bulls and had me test all 55 bulls
for semen evaluation And these other guys said,
well, hell, I guess old Ashton and Mastin could
afford to do that. I'll check my one book on it if
there's something wrong. So, you know, things
started snowballing. Do you think, I remember
that, Joe, I was in the school in Texas in 55, 56, but
was that pretty pervasive all over the state? You
think that most veterinarians went through that
same kind of, maybe not in East Texas, but in the
west of it all? No, we did. And I remember that was a
terrible... My low point, though, came just a
little bit before that, about 1953, I guess. Of
course, the drought didn't affect us right in the
immediate Rio Grande Valley. Yeah, because
you've got the water and the irrigation area and
such as that. But the economy was depressed
because of the drought throughout Texas, and it
affected our practice in that respect. But in 51 I
took in my first partner. That was two years after
I'd opened. I took in a partner who was a classmate
of mine and he'd been down in Mexico on the Aftosia
program, the foot and mouth disease program. Been
about a year down there and he came back up to and
built a clinic. While his clinic was being built,
he was coming up to West Laco and just spending each
day with me just trying to get his hands back into
practice, Tom Mosley. And I taught the world and
all of them while we were in class together and
school together as well as after graduation. And
things were going so well for us at that time that
even after he got his clinic finished, he
continued to work with me and we might i made a
partner out of it not in the real estate but yeah 50
50 net income in the practice and that was went on
for two years i guess he was sitting with a brand new
completed veterinary clinic in harlingen
commuting back and forth to hardington and
practicing with me but they got so slow and quiet
that we decided we'd better split up and him make a
run at it and hardly continue to investigate. And
that was really the low point, I guess, to have to
turn loose a partner that I've known an awful lot
of. We were just extremely compatible and enjoyed
each other's companionship as well as sharing
our... But you were just really having trouble
surviving. That's right. It was just... Well,
that's kind of nature, I guess, of any business,
really, if you think about it. It's not just
peculiar to veterinary practice or anything. In
fact, then, it was about 1956 that I took in my
second partner who was with me for nine years at
that time. They built Falcon Dam at the time. They
were expecting it to take several years for the dam
to be built. But they had one of the hurricanes come
in that dumped very little water on the coast but
came in up up river and there's water in the
watershed up the river and san juan river and phil
falcon lake and one rain yeah i mean i think i
remember that kind of turn the economy of the
valley around when they had the constant water how
much time did both of you have to spend actually
with business affairs in your practice Managing
the books. Did you have, did you hire accountants?
How'd you do that? Or did you do it yourself? We had
no business experience. I didn't before I went in,
you know. I hadn't ever had any money in my life
anyway, and $100 a month seemed like a hell of a
bunch. Working there in Houston, I was able to get
some exposure working at the packing house. But we
had a hist account book system, and my wife worked
at the clinic for the first, in the office for the
first, oh golly, eight years, I think. So she was
your receptionist, bookkeeper, basically.
Bookkeeper, telephone person, dog baler, cage
cleaner, and everything. We just did whatever it
had to do to make it go. his account system was one
that was a commercial thing they put out day by day
thing and of course there was a person who did
income tax returns we didn't have to worry about
that for five years you know sort of an in-house
operation again the drug salesman would come by or
the bill reed people from drug out come by and check
the farmers here ask you what you need did you rely
on them quite a bit for your for your uh information
on medications etc Yeah, new drugs and flyers,
briefs, prices, volume discounts. You know, if
you bought so much paid cash, you got 6% off. Just
about the charges while I go, or fees, like Elmo,
somebody going and borrowing money at the bank at
4% then was a pretty good deal. And they paid $5,000
or something. I said, look, you know, this
animal's about to die. If I'm going to give you that
animal back, 4% of the... First, the price is not
too high, but it didn't always amount to that.
There were other people, I guess I gave away a brick
home at one time by the time I moved here by not
charging 4-H club members, vocation ag dealers,
that sort of thing, just doing the work for them.
Usually folks had something in return.
So it was a good thing.
When I went to the Valley to start practice, I think
this is an indication of the transition that
veterinary medicine made, probably as a result of
World War II and its effect on the overall economy
as well as on the veterinary profession. I wanted
to build a building for a veterinary hospital.
That's something that wasn't very frequently
done at that time. Most veterinary clinics moved
into an abandoned service station. It had an
excellent location. That's where the traffic
was. It had a lot of water supply, and they had a lot
of concrete, all that sort of thing. But my dad,
well, he loaned me the money. There was no
paperwork. I couldn't show that I owed the money
for the lot that I bought. I paid $2,500 for a
50-foot lot. $50 a book
and $2,500 for the lot where I could borrow money to
build a building. The lot had to be terrible. Well,
I drew plans for a hospital and I took it to the
savings and loan and tried to borrow money on it.
They weren't about to loan money for a veterinary
hospital. And, of course, they had no confidence
in veterinarians. They had nothing to do with the
building. If I didn't make a go of it, what did the
savings alone do for the veterinary hospital? So
they sent me back to redraw my plans. I had to draw
plans for a residence. Well, nobody was going to
believe where I was going to build this hospital.
It was right on the main highway. on a narrow, long,
50-foot lot.
So I had to renew my plan so it would pass as a
residence.
But this day and time... Then you got the money. I
got the money. Ten thousand dollars. And I built
the building and had money left over to buy drug
stock and a surgery table. That's what I started
with and got three pieces of furniture for a
reception room. But this day and time and for the
last probably 30 years, you could take your
license go into a community and go in and borrow
money just on your license to practice or diploma.
That's good. That's an indication of recognition
of how the profession is recognized by the society
and the banking community and everybody else. At
one time, was it IRS that considered veterinarian
the same as plumbers? And bartenders. Plumbers
and bartenders? And
what about your business? How did you operate the
business side of it? The business side of it? Well,
I had a little bit of exposure to the business
aspect of veterinary medicine with my uncle when I
was practicing with him. At that time, most
veterinarians, most graduates did go out and set
up their own practice unless they were going into
the service. of it anymore, that's a rare thing.
You might have maybe two or three kids out of this
graduating class that's planning on moving into
their own practice immediately. They've got to go
through a training period and then go to practice
for a period of at least a year, maybe
two or three. The histocount bookkeeping system
that Claudia referred to, of course I didn't have
one in practice until 49, and first year I just kept
it in a notebook, my income. I had an Aggie friend
that was a CPA in the West Licole community, and
took my books to him, such as they were, and he made
considerable corrections on them for another
year, and then about that time histocount system
came out, which was I still consider that an
excellent training for bookkeeping.
It had your daily records of both income and
expenditures and then a monthly summary sheet and
then the annual summary sheet that just all worked
out very well. I used that for probably 15 of the
years that I was, 22 years that I was in practice, I
guess. It's still in use, I guess, isn't it,
Charlie? Except most of them operate on a
computerized basis. Oh, yeah. I guess I
overlooked one year there that was about the same
as 5596. Daughter fell off a swing set and broke her
leg. Next week, my wife said she was pregnant, and
the IRS sent me a notice saying we're going to
audit. Boy, boy, boy. When it hits, it hits hard.
I'm going to audit it one time. There's a good
experience, you know. When it hit, it hit. Okay, I
know about your low side. What are the high points
of your, and I'll close it down in just a little bit.
I'm in no rush. Okay. You want to take a break? My
students need me. They're receiving hours. Okay.
And they, three of them did this last week, so they
know very well how to do it this week. And if they
need me, they can get me on the paper. Okay. So just
take your time. But what were the higher points of
your practice? Time. And then what I want to ask you
is sort of compare, a general comparison of your,
of the academic side, the practice side. how you
feel about veterinary medicine and
veterinarians and where the profession's going
and that kind of thing will wind it up pretty much at
that level. But what were the high points now? I
guess the high point was building the clinic and
building the house. We bought a lot and built a home
and a VA loan and built the clinic when I sold the
little farm operation we had. Getting that
together where we could work in the inside. enjoy
that a lot more. Well that that was that was a high
point of my practice is when I bought the furniture
showroom shops and converted it into a veterinary
clinic and until that time I didn't have any large
ambulance services. I did it on ambulatory work
and all the work in the field. Did you did you both
kind of feel that throughout your practice that
you sort of had the I don't know, you've got the
esteem, the respect, or whatever the community
around you, people, life, veterinarians. Is that
an overstatement? I think so. I kind of said, yeah.
The last veterinarian that the licensed
practitioner had been there was, oh golly, it must
have been 1916 or 1918. I believe the guy's name was
Chris when he died of man's rats. But they had a
great deal of respect for Dr. Burns there again. He
was an outstanding individual in the community as
a veterinarian. Do you feel that veterinarians
have pretty well preserved that sense of
identification with the community or supportive
base? Well, I don't think practitioners are as
much community-related now as they were when...
It's so much of an urban society now. Okay, so you
lose some of that personal identification.
That's right, and they're just not as involved as
much in community activities as they were. I've
noticed this in I think this is one of the most
dramatic things that I noticed when I was on the
selection committee. Interviewing these kids,
you ask them about how they would like to
participate in community life when they're a
veterinarian. And they're all coming from
Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, San Antonio,
Austin. The big cities are not coming from these
smaller communities where their dad or mother had
an opportunity to serve on the school board, on the
city council, and such as that. They just don't
make that connection that you have the
opportunity as a professional individual to
participate in community activities or fairs
like that. Have you noticed that, Charlie? Well,
there's some reluctance. For some reason, they
either participate in fun runs or jobs or clubs or
something like that, but they don't seem to want to
participate at the city council level or the
school board. Yeah, or even the socials are
community activity clubs. Rotary club or Lions
Club, Kiwanis, you know, they don't, well, I
didn't hear any talk about it. It's a different
breed. Well, it doesn't make, they can't see it as
making money for them. Yeah. And I think, well, I
think all of society now is more concerned about
the dollars than they were. Oh, I think so. Well, I
sure do. I sure do. What I want to kind of ask,
though, relating to this general idea is, how do
you think the, um, the profile of the veterinarian
has changed in the public mind as compared to the
profile of the medical doctor. Because I see a
rather large change in the way the public views the
medical profession and less a change in the way the
public views veterinarians. In other words, I
think that the veterinarian still has, in a sense,
a great deal of a sense of public affection, maybe.
That's the wrong word, but that's the idea I want to
get to. Whereas the doctor has become such a
specialized and more impersonal character. Is
that wrong? Well, it depends, though. I think,
again, on the individual. Alcohol and drugs have
taken a toll on both the veterinary profession and
the medical profession. Yeah, I saw an article
about that recently. I hadn't even really
realized that veterinarians were so susceptible
to that problem, but apparently they are. My first
experience in practice, and that's about two
years after I got there, was an EMD who had gotten on
drugs, came and gave me a check to go buy drugs. I
didn't know this until I got a check in England. But
the veterinarians, the image the veterinarians
have had is, of course, earlier you have to live
now. Microchippers, snub dippers, whiskey
drinkers, you know, hail raisers in general. yeah
and uh i think we've been able to live that down i'm
particularly proud of the female contingent of
their medicine they dress well they groom
themselves well they're not addicted to drugs and
alcohol in my knowledge we've had some male
members of the profession
but the idea of professionalism i think it uh that
everyone wants to contribute to raising the
image. The thing that's bad is, like it is with the
news media, the press got on this deal in Houston
where the city council passed the licensing deal,
and the veterinarians have to report the names of
all who had their dogs vaccinated. You get
involved with the news media, and then the
veterinary profession gets the bad ball on the
thing. The same thing with the old boy that had the
42 dogs they picked up the other day. Again, this
morning in the Houston Chronicle. You'd think
that the veterinarian Tom Durrell was the one, you
know, Tom owned Pasadena, was on Shaver, you know,
when Mombardi was there. Tom's involved with it,
and not really because he just knew the guy, but
here's the veterinarian, he gets the fall, you
know, so you have to be continually defending the
profession and yourself and Leo's to such an
extent that it will upgrade instead of that. Now, I
picked up from Billy Tremere and some of the group
over in San Antonio the sense that maybe the
professionalism or the symbols of the
profession, at least, are getting lost a little
bit in this newer generation. Dress, deportment,
attire. Oh, yeah. I think we've seen the whole
circle, Henry.
Let's go back to our executive secretary. When we
graduated, Eddie Grist, have you met him yet? No.
Have you been told about him? Not really. He's an
invalid now in a wheelchair confined to a
wheelchair. And he was in New Braunfels. New
Braunfels, okay. And was extension veterinarian
for when we were in school. And then he went into
practice in New Braunfels and was the secretary
for the TVMA. And at the time Eddie was secretary
for the TVMA, dues were a dollar. Yeah. I remember
the first TVMA meeting I went to was in San Antonio,
and they had their business meeting, and then he
kind of made the announcement that we were
dismissed, and, oh, by the way, dues are a dollar.
If you go out the door, we'll leave you a dollar.
Yeah. A dollar. A dollar. Yeah. I think I copied
some of the list. We went then from Eddie Grist as
secretary of TVMA, and our first meeting,
full-time executive secretary was paul blunt who
was a veterinarian he was also an attorney and he
was first a part-time executive secretary for the
bear county veterinary association i'm
surprised they didn't put you in on this i probably
have that yeah i probably didn't have any records
but
uh Brown and Parker didn't. Were they present?
R.D. Brown? No, both of them in the hospital that
day. Is that right? Yes, sir. You've got to get
those guys. Yeah, they said I should come back for
them. They were partners. It was scheduled, and
they both were in the hospital. They were two of the
people in attendance at Bexar County meetings
when I attended down there. Two of those people
were. And Culpepper, their other partner. But
Paul Blunt, then, was our first full-time
executive secretary. And old Paul Blunt was
poisoning with tobacco smoke. He'd get it right in
your face, and he'd take a big, deep breath, and
inhale it, and the whole time he was talking, just
puffing this smoke right out in your face. And
you'd be backing up to get out of it, and he'd be
advancing. But he said, when he became executive
secretary, he said, I'm going to take this
profession out of cowboy boots and blue jeans and
put them in coats and ties. And he did a pretty
doggone good job of it. And that went on for, well,
after Paul Blunt, we had Paul.
He was the executive secretary when I was
president. That's a good quote. I'm going to use
that one. He wore the black leather jacket you're
talking about? Oh, well, he was the PR man from
Dallas. His name was Paul. Mm-hmm. I'll find it.
Three o'clock in the morning, I'll call you. Okay,
all right, fine. But anyway, he advanced the
profession to the public by the news media. He made
a concerted effort to gather news items of
veterinarians' involvement in local politics or
local community activity, and anything done of
state newsworthiness, he disseminated that
thoroughly. Well, he had me invited as president
of TVMA to the Texas Medical Association meeting
in Galveston as kind of a guest. Yeah, that's a good
touch. I don't know whether it ever happened again
or not. Yeah, that's a good touch. I'm not a fan of
that. No, we had a meeting set with the TMA on
appointment of somebody to the State Board of
Health. I met an officer with those guys there.
Well, for several years, I know we invited the
president of the Texas Medical Association to our
convictions, and it was a woman the year after I was
president that attended the Fort Worth meeting.
There's A. Owen. Yeah, A. Owen. She attended the
TVMA meeting. But I think during those times, was
probably when the greatest effort was made to
raise the prestige of the veterinary profession
to the public. And I think that they did a good job of
it. But I do think that probably in the last 10 or 15
years, there's been kind of a taper. Yeah, that's
kind of what I picked up. Seeing young people come
into the TVMA meeting and cutoffs. Yeah. Well,
that's, again, the style of life part, I guess. It
isn't so much that as I got a recent report from my
daughter who took her dog into the clinic. This
girl, when she was here, would dress Neiman
Marcus, Neiman Marcus dresses, suits, nice.
Carpenter, you remember that? Yeah, sure. She
worked for Lloyd Petry. She came in with a jogging
suit on, jogging shoes, whatever, playing
baseball, you know, right in to talk to clients and
work on that. Well, the medical profession is
doing the same thing, Charles. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I
agree with that. I know when my mother was sick,
this was three years ago in the hospital, they had a
medical doctor, he was a Latin, but you have Latin
doctors, their dress is fine, but there was one
down there that I thought was a custodian. He was up
and down the halls all the time, and I wondered
where his room was, because he was just dressed so
sloppy and unkempt looking. Look at Red Duke when
he does his thing. Oh yeah boy. One time he's got on
the tub, the next time he's got on the tub. That's
what I like about Scott and White, they do have some
memoratory rules. Back to my clinic that built, my
first one that I built in, turned it down to what
turned out to be downtown Wesley Cove. When I moved
out to the new clinic that I remodeled the
furniture store, It turned into a fried chicken
place. Is that right? They didn't make a go of it. In
fact, they had a little fire in it. I don't know
whether it was an insurance fire or not. It didn't
do a whole lot of damage to the building, but it was
vacant for a while and I sold it to a convenience
store owner that was right next door to it. And then
he eventually sold it to a medical doctor who was an
Indian doctor, not an American Indian, an
orthopedic surgeon, and his wife was also a
doctor, and she was an obstetrician and
gynecologist. And they took that little old brick
building, 34 by 34 was the building I started off
with, and I added on to it a kennel building in the
back that was better constructed than the
original building was, running it for $8,500. You
can imagine it wasn't a whole lot of a building. But
those people, between the two of them, just about
own half of Westaco now. Is that right? Yeah. They
built a new building on the street just back of it
between my clinic and the local medical hospital.
And they've parlayed their two medical degrees
into a fortune in that community. It's amazing
what those people have done. It's amazing what
those people have done. The front was small
animals and the large animal operating room was in
the center and then the stable area in the other
part. And I wore coveralls for the large animal
work and I'd slip those off and slip on at least from
the forward linen and towel supply three-quarter
length white wraparound jackets and a white shirt
and black bow tie. And, you know, you go in there,
you're clean when you go to the front door. You
small animal things, if you cover off, go out the
back, you know. And it worked very well. The
biggest harassment that I got when I came here is I
had a pair of white books, shoes, red soles, you
know. I wore those and kept my stethoscope. And you
can imagine Jim Denton saying, hey, here comes Ben
Casey. Oh, get out. But the students felt it. There
was a horse man, a practitioner before, now Buzz, I
can't remember Buzz's last name, but he also had a
white box and more of a dress over there. And the
students would harass you, but pretty soon you'd
watch and they'd come cleaner or they'd come, but
now we've got, I guess they still have a set rule of
clean coveralls on campus. We've got some
criticism by our students going over to the MSA and
all the gay with clean coveralls. Well, I wore a
white barber's coat, I guess, you know. Yeah. Like
we used to have. Snap down the side. Yeah. Yeah. The
same thing we wore when we were students. And I had
what I call my dog shoes and my cow shoes. I kept a
pair of field boots in the back of my car. I never
practiced in a pickup. Most veterinarians don't
practice, but I always used the trunk of my car. I
wanted to be able to. put it in there and close the
lid and shut it out of sight. I kept a pair of field
boots in the backseat of my car in the floorboard.
Well, on a country call, I'd put on my field boots.
I'd get back to the clinic, I'd slip on my shoes.
Most people wouldn't have to clean their shoes to
go in the clinic. Is it true, incidentally, that
the practice had, but it doesn't seem to be
necessarily what I've gotten from you, that
instead of you going to your clients, the clients
are now coming to the veterinarian? That's the
simplest statement. There's still people who
make some out of college and larger operations.
But yeah, by and large, I think the clinic
facilities are such that they attract you to come
in. And I know you were mentioning on the phone, the
automobile really revolutionized the
veterinary practice business as much as anything
in the world. I had that Jeep, and I had a roll bar on
it, and I had a metal cab built in, and I had a water
tank on the back with a faucet on it, and all those
things. When I couldn't drive up within 10 or 20
feet of the patient, I was pretty perplexed. I've
been to places where the creek bank was so steep
that I'd be afraid to drive up and come back, so I'd
back up the thing. I wanted to take the poleaxe and
cut the bigger ones down. I'd drive over the little
ones, you know, and get up to them. It was just there
in sections in the field. Those things worked very
well. We had mud roads. I can remember going
three-quarters of a mile one time. It took me about
45 minutes punching black mud with a hose and
pouring that water in there and the thing balling
up. And even a compound low four-wheel drive, you
couldn't negotiate. You couldn't get through
that many. Yes. That's another thing that helped
the rural practices was farm to market rules. The
improvement of travel methods and
identification. The guy couldn't tell you where
he lived. He didn't even have his name on the
mailbox 90% of the time when I went into practice.
Those things changed. Television, whatever.
Television had a profound effect on it. They used
to come to the house at 5 in the morning. Who's going
to sleep all day? And when they got TV, they watched
the late show. You see them come and call me about 7
in the morning. They got off of that rack. Yeah.
That's interesting.
What do you think needs to be in a history of
veterinary medicine that you would put in there
particularly? Well, it'd be kind of like the
encyclopedia. It'd be a whole set of it. Whatever
you think. Yeah, and take plenty of volumes, you
know, to include the people and the things that
happened to them in Texas. But if you were to
emphasize some quality, some aspect of the
business, would you emphasize the... Well, I
think the change from the feed store and the back of
the drug store to your own clinics and the...
participation at continuing education levels.
These things need to be in there. The funded
research, the cutting-edge research is
developed by drug companies and veterinarians in
their law. And is the product of most that result
getting to the practitioner through continuing
education programs, through your College of
Veterinary Medicine? I think that there's an
interesting contrast there, too. Even the other
professions, I think conventions, to the general
public, means going off and having a good time. And
I think forever. Veterinary conventions have
involved continuing education. I think there's
been a concerted effort on veterinarians to stay
abreast of their, well, it's been such a rapidly
developing field that we have felt the challenge
of dealing with so many different species of
animals, and general practitioners were not
limited to one species or one aspect of... I mean,
exhibit halls are just a valuable tool,
information tool. I know it is in your
conventions. Just walk around seeing the new
equipment and ideas and medicines. I know it is in
history. I go around and look at the book exhibit.
We have conventions. Well, that's part of the
academy, I guess, is to plan a convention off
somewhere that provides a place to take the family
for. a vacation. But generally speaking,
throughout the nation, and maybe even throughout
the world, I don't know, I haven't attended that
much.
Or even read that much. Do both of you go to the
American Veterinary Medical Conventions? Yeah,
ABMA. ABMA, yeah. Yeah, I have, you know, he told
me, as I've been the senior member a while ago, you
know, I have some advantages he doesn't have now in
retirement. I have a complimentary membership of
the American Bovine Practitioners, the ABMA. I
was a contingent 40-year uninterrupted
membership in TVMA and ABMA both. So they gave me
complimentary memberships, though,
complimentary registration in ABMA. That's
good, yeah. So, you know, that's it. I think for
small animal practitioners, that's been the
Cadillac of convention. And I think this is
another aspect of veterinary medicine too that
could receive a little attention. Long about the,
well, the 40s and the 50s,